#summary Pretty URLs overview
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

*Pretty URLs* is a URL management package for [http://simplemachines.org Simple Machine Forums] (SMF).

It is simple, powerful, extensible and free. Most of all, it is pretty! Its main purpose is to rewrite the important SMF URLs, like these:

  * {{{http://domain.com/board/topic/}}}
  * {{{http://domain.com/profile/user/}}}
  * {{{http://domain.com/unreadreplies/}}}

Pretty URLs will work with SMF 1.1 and 2.0. It requires an Apache webserver with support for mod_rewrite and .htaccess files.

Pretty URLs is released under a [http://prettyurls.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/LICENCE new BSD licence]<br>
Copyright (c) 2006-2010 [http://prettyurls.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/CONTRIBUTORS The Pretty URLs Contributors]

= Downloads =

You can download packages from the [http://code.google.com/p/prettyurls/downloads/list Downloads] tab at the top! Use the latest version of the `prettyurls` package. Sometimes snapshot packages are available too: these have extra features currently in development, and should only be installed by advanced users.

An `extras` package is also available, which contains some additional filters. The `reverter` package should be installed if you decide to remove the prettyurls package: it will redirect the pretty URLs back to the normal SMF urls.

= Installation =

To install the mod:

  * First check again that your server supports mod_rewrite and .htaccess files.
  * A UTF-8 database encoding is recommended, though not required. Certain functions will work unreliably with other encodings.
  * Download and install the `prettyurls` package in your forum's package manager.
  * Enable URL rewriting in the new Pretty URLs page.

= Need help? =

*[TroubleShooting Check the trouble shooting page first!]*

If that doesn't answer your questions, ask for help in the [http://www.simplemachines.org/community/index.php?topic=146969 support topic]. Please post live URLs which we can easily access. It's too difficult to help with forums installed locally or on intranets.

= How to contribute =

If you have sufficient PHP skills, try fixing a bug. We're on the look out for more developers.

If you speak a language other than English, please help by translating the mod. We use [http://translations.launchpad.net/prettyurls Launchpad.net] for translations.