#summary Solutions to a few common problems

If you're experiencing problems with Pretty URLs this page may help you. But first check that your forum is using the latest version of this mod. Stable and SVN snapshot packages are available on the [http://code.google.com/p/prettyurls/downloads/list downloads page].

= Every link causes 404 Not Found errors =

If after installing the mod every link is broken, there is probably a problem with your server (it may not support mod_rewrite or per-directory .htaccess configuration files). To fix the links so that the problem can be diagnosed and fixed, or so you can uninstall the mod, create a new .php file with this code:

{{{
<?php
require_once(dirname(__FILE__) . '/SSI.php');
updateSettings(array('pretty_enable_filters' => '0'));
?>
}}}

Upload the file to the same location as your forum's SSI.php and open it with your web browser. Then don't forget to delete it!

= Links point to old domain after moving forum =

This is very simple to fix, in addition to updating all the other settings with [http://docs.simplemachines.org/index.php?topic=663 repair_settings.php], this mod has one more setting to fix. You can either manually fix the pretty_root_url setting yourself, or else create a new .php with this code:

{{{
<?php
require_once(dirname(__FILE__) . '/SSI.php');
require_once($sourcedir . '/Subs-PrettyUrls.php');
updateSettings(array('pretty_root_url' => $boardurl));
pretty_update_filters();
?>
}}}

Upload the file to the same location as your forum's SSI.php and open it with your web browser. Then don't forget to delete it!
